All right.
Welcome again let's go ahead and get into some limit exercises so that you get some practice.
So where are going to simply find the limits.
All right.
So find the following limit it says limit of x squared plus 10 x minus five as x approaches 1.
So go ahead and pause the video and try to find the limit.
All right.
So let's see how you did.
Remember that to find the limb we're going to plug it in.
Mnemonic says that all we need to do here literally is plug in this one into this function and that's
going to give us our limit.
So it's going to be one squared
plus 10 times one
minus five.
All right so one squared is just one plus ten times one is just 10 minus five.
So one plus 10 is 11 minus five is six.
So put it down here.
The limit of this function as x approaches 1 is simply 6.
All we needed to do was plug it into the function itself and we are done.
All right.
So here we have her next limit limit of x squared minus 2 over X plus 5 as x approaches negative to
go ahead and pause and give it a shot.
All right.
So again should be pretty similar to the other one to find the lym just plug it in.
So we're going to go ahead and plug in this negative two into this function.
So we have negative 2 squared
minus two
over negative two plus five.
And what is negative 2 squared is a negative two times negative 2.
So remember that a negative times a negative equals a positive.
So that's positive for minus 2.
Over negative 2 plus 5.
So if you go to dollars but you pay 5 back now you're three in the clear.
Right.
So it's going to be positive three.
And we have four minus two is two.
And on the bottom we have three.
So the limit of this function as x approaches negative 2 is two thirds.
And we are good to go.
So as you can see all you have to do is to find the lym just plug it in plug in this number into the
actual function that you're finding the limit for.
And if you get a number then you're good.
However there are going to be cases where you get a 0 0 or a number over zero.
The point is when you have division by zero then you have a problem.
Sometimes you have to do something else.
Sometimes the limit doesn't exist.
And let's check out some more examples on that.